---
title: 'NJIT Quality Assurance in eLearning Rubric'
description:
  'NJIT Quality Assurance rubric for eLearning courses - Third Edition, approved
  Spring 2024'
layout: base.njk
---

NJIT Quality Assurance in eLearning Rubric (Third Edition) Approved by the TLT
Committee in Spring 2024 This rubric provides standard criteria of best practice
for all instructors teaching digital learning courses as well as guidance for
any mode of instruction. Meeting these standards is required for online courses
developed in collaboration with the Office of Online Programs (OOP) to ensure
consistency, inclusivity, and equity across online programs; however, any
instructor is welcome to adopt them and go beyond the NJIT Online Course Core
Standards required of all other courses intended to be offered online.

The standards have been designed based on best practices adapted from Quality
Matters and the SUNY Online Course Quality Review Rubric (OSCQR) in a way that
emphasizes NJIT values and policies. This rubric also ensures that online
courses fulfill NJIT’s obligations and requirements for compliance on the
regional, state, and federal levels.

Within this rubric, there are nine categories outlining standards with
rationales and examples for clarity. These standards serve as a roadmap to
support excellence in digital learning, and additional resources are provided as
further guidance in achieving these standards. For any questions, please contact
<officeofonlineprograms@njit.edu>.

1. Course Introduction and Syllabus

The course introduction and syllabus set the tone for the course, providing
students with essential information, clear expectations, and guidance.

Standard Rationale

1.1 An introduction module or page includes a welcome message and course
overview, introducing the course and explaining how students can get started.

Providing students with a welcome message and course overview sets a positive
first impression and humanizes the learning experience, which can impact
students’ engagement and motivation.

The introduction may include a statement of the course’s purpose, how it will
contribute to student learning, and how the course is relevant to students’
broader lives. The statement may also explain how students can get started by
prompting them to read the syllabus or view course navigation details (see
Standard 1.4).

You can see an example on the course home page of this model course by
self-enrolling in Canvas.

1.2 A detailed, downloadable syllabus is easy to find, includes all standards
required by the Provost's Office, and the course description and prerequisites
match the official description from the university catalog. Placing the syllabus
in an easily accessible location within Canvas, such as the dedicated Syllabus
area, ensures effortless access for students. Organizing it in the course Files
area or sharing the syllabus in an announcement at the beginning of the semester
hinders students’ ability to find or refer back to it.

A detailed syllabus provides a clear roadmap for both students and instructors,
setting clear expectations for policies related to grading, academic integrity,
etc. Matching the course description and prerequisites with the official catalog
language is essential for aligning with students’ initial expectations upon
registering for the course.

For additional guidance, refer to these Best Practices in Syllabus Design and
this sample Online Course Syllabus Template.

1.3 Instructor provides a self-introduction. A self-introduction establishes the
instructor’s teaching presence and creates a welcoming learning environment
(Darby & Lang, 2019). Instructors may choose to share professional and academic
experiences that showcase their expertise, discuss hobbies and interests, or
impart what they hope students will get out of the course. The goal is to help
personalize the learning experience and create social presence.

Self-introductions can take various forms, including a written paragraph, video
presentation, or introduction forum post (see Standard 6.1).

1.4 Instructor provides an explanation of how to navigate through the course and
learning modules and a clear statement of course expectations (what students
need to do each week to be successful). Providing students with information
about the course structure and expectations helps reduce confusion and sets the
foundation for effective time management, engagement, and accountability (Kumar
& Skrocki, 2016).

Examples may include a recorded course tour or a clearly stated explanation such
as, “This course is organized by weekly modules. Each week, you must complete a
reading assignment, watch lecture videos, participate in a discussion forum, and
submit assignments by Sunday at 11:59 pm.”

1.5 A course schedule in the syllabus includes specific, consistent due dates
and times for module activities and assessments, is uniform with those present
in Canvas, and is provided at the start of the semester. Providing a course
schedule at the start of the semester enables students to be proactive and stay
on track, contributing to their overall success. The schedule should go beyond
listing topics and detail each module’s activities and assessments as well as
what day and time they are due.

This emphasis on specific and consistent due dates and times is essential, as
online courses don’t meet at a regular time every week. Establishing a regular
pattern of due dates and times helps students rely on predictability to
effectively manage their time as they juggle other responsibilities.

Consider having each module begin on a Monday, with a majority of assignments
due by Sunday at 11:59 pm.

1.6 For courses that hold exams, midterms, or finals, the Online Course Exam
Proctoring Policy is provided in the syllabus from the beginning of the
semester, along with syllabus language for the chosen proctoring tool. In
courses with midterm and final exams, providing the proctoring policy and
related information in advance gives students time to prepare for technical
requirements and identify an appropriate exam environment. For courses that do
not hold exams, this standard is not required.

2. Learning Outcomes

Learning outcomes are the cornerstone of a course, directly influencing the
instructional materials, activities, and assessments. They are also essential to
the university for accreditation purposes. Learning outcomes help instructors
describe expectations to students, plan effective learning experiences, and
confidently assess students. They help students see what they will take away
from the course, know in advance what they will be assessed on, and understand
the purpose of course assignments.

Standard Rationale

2.1 Course learning outcomes are present, clear, and measurable according to
Bloom’s taxonomy, describing skills students will achieve upon successfully
completing the course. Course learning outcomes serve as the foundation of a
course. They provide students with a precise understanding of what they will
gain from the course. They also guide instructors in designing meaningful
assessments, activities, and content that directly contribute to achieving these
outcomes.

Outcomes should each begin with a measurable verb (e.g., define, explain,
analyze, create, etc.) that describes the observable knowledge and skills
students will be expected to demonstrate. They are typically listed after a
statement such as, “By the end of this course, you will be able to…”

2.2 Course learning outcomes align with the course’s university catalog
description. Aligning course learning outcomes with the catalog description
helps ensure alignment with programmatic expectations and that students will
learn what they expect upon registering for the course.

For example, if the university catalog advertises an environmental science
course as focusing on renewable energy sources, but the course’s learning
outcomes primarily emphasize ecological principles and environmental policy,
students might not acquire the specific skills they expected.

This practice supports instructors’ delivery of promised knowledge and skills,
meeting individual course expectations while aligning the course with broader
program goals.

2.3 Course learning outcomes span the range of Bloom’s levels, facilitating the
integration of students’ knowledge and skills across various domains. Developing
learning outcomes that span a range of cognitive levels (remembering,
understanding, applying, analyzing, evaluating, and creating) and scaffolding
students’ learning experiences allows them to progressively advance their skills
and knowledge. Starting with foundational concepts and gradually moving toward
higher-order thinking skills provides a structured framework for students to
build on what they’ve learned, fostering a deeper and more enduring
understanding (Ambrose et al., 2010).

Bloom’s levels for course outcomes may vary based on the course’s academic level
(undergraduate and graduate) and its prerequisites, guiding the progression from
foundational concepts and application at the undergraduate level to advanced
analysis, synthesis, and creation at the graduate level.

2.4 All course learning outcomes are assessed at some point during the course.
Ensuring the alignment and assessment of all course learning outcomes is
essential for delivering what is assured to students in the syllabus. Aligning
all course learning outcomes to assessments ensures that students have the
opportunity to achieve all intended learning outcomes, upholding the
instructor’s commitment. Consider using a course outcomes matrix to ensure there
are no gaps in alignment.

For additional guidance, please see this resource for writing measurable
learning outcomes.

3. Organization and Design

Course organization and design encompass the structural aspects of the course,
such as how materials are arranged, the logical flow of content, and overall
design coherence. A well-organized course aids students in accessing content
more effectively, fostering engagement, comprehension, and a positive learning
environment.

Standard Rationale

3.1 All course content (readings, lectures, etc.) is hosted on the course Canvas
page, and third-party materials and tools are embedded or integrated when
possible. Organizing all materials in Canvas ensures a consistent experience for
students across all courses, helping them better locate content (Educause,
2020). Providing easy access to readings, lectures, and other resources directly
from the course page enhances student engagement and success.

3.2 The course is segmented into meaningful learning modules that organize
aligned learning outcomes, instructional materials, and activities/assessments.
Modules may represent one week of instruction or, in accelerated courses,
students may move through multiple modules per week. Organizing the course into
meaningful learning modules that align learning outcomes, instructional
materials, and activities/assessments keeps students consistently engaged and on
task.

Weekly organization is ideal, as each week offers a fresh start and distinct
focus, fostering a sense of progression and accomplishment. This organization
promotes a proactive learning environment where students can effectively manage
their time, maintain their momentum, and work toward learning outcomes.

During accelerated courses, students should move through multiple modules per
week, maintaining a comparable workload in a condensed time frame (see Standard
7.1).

3.3 Each module includes an overview that explains the general topic of the
module, how the readings, activities, and assessments are intended to help
students achieve the learning outcomes, and what actions students will take to
demonstrate their learning. The overview also includes a list of applicable
outcomes for the module.

The purpose of the module overview is to help orient students to the content and
structure of the module. The overview explains how the module builds upon
previous knowledge and sets the stage for what students can expect to learn and
experience. The module overview should motivate students and help them see the
value in the topics and concepts that will be covered. The overview should also
help students understand why the module is relevant and how it fits into the
broader curriculum.

The module overview can be a brief paragraph or recording. Consider opening your
overview with a creative hook, such as a thought-provoking question or anecdote.

3.4 Contents within and across each module are clearly labeled and organized,
include relevant due dates and instructions, and are consistent from module to
module. Uniformity in organization helps students effectively navigate the
course. By providing students with a coherent and consistent course structure
and naming conventions, they can easily locate resources, assignments, and due
dates.

Use Canvas’s text header feature to distinguish between instructional materials,
learning activities, etc. Doing so not only enhances organization but also
contributes to a more accessible learning experience (see Standard 8.5).

4. Instructional Materials

In an online course, while a variety of digital content may be curated and
shared, the instructor should serve as the primary voice, taking responsibility
for creating and contextualizing course materials while abiding by copyright
laws and aligning with the NJIT Guidelines for Third-Party Material in Course
Design and Delivery.

Striking a balance between readings and videos ensures a well-rounded and
engaging learning experience for students, with instructors’ guidance and
expertise at the forefront.

Standard Rationale

4.1 Course content is strategically designed to help students achieve the
learning outcomes, and content is primarily created/contextualized by the
instructor. Strategically choosing and designing content that aligns with the
course learning outcomes (rather than moving sequentially through a single
textbook or resource, for example) helps ensure that reading/viewing materials
are purposeful and directly contribute to students’ mastery of desired skills
and knowledge.

Additionally, students expect to benefit from the expertise, knowledge, and
experience of their instructors. Providing context for course content, such as
why you are asking students to read or watch certain materials, can enhance
students’ motivation and comprehension (Johansen et al., 2023).

4.2 Course content abides by copyright laws. When selecting course materials,
instructors must abide by copyright laws as well as model academic integrity for
students by giving proper credit to all sources. Some materials are available
for public consumption, though some restrictions and precautions still apply.
Other copyrighted material can be shared in small portions under fair use
guidelines.

Consider leveraging Open Educational Resources (OER) and NJIT Library resources
when possible to provide reliable, cost-effective materials to students.

For additional guidance, please see these copyright considerations for online
courses.

4.3 Course content includes multimedia elements within each module. In an online
learning environment, students should do more than only read content. Each week,
students should have the opportunity to engage with instructional materials via
recorded lectures, podcasts, and/or other video resources.

4.4 Lecture materials are designed specifically for asynchronous course
delivery, are strategically segmented, and abide by NJIT policy. Segmenting
lecture materials into shorter, digestible videos can aid in student
comprehension and keep students engaged (Manasrah et al., 2021). Think of this
approach like a book chapter that is organized into distinct subtopics, with
headings that signal changes in focus.

While certain situations may call for longer videos (such as complex software
demonstrations), shorter videos (approximately 5-10 minutes long) allow students
to more easily revisit and review specific topics as needed. This approach also
benefits instructors by reducing the need to re-record lengthy videos, making it
easier to update and replace videos as needed.

For additional guidance, please see this Best Practices for Recording Lecture
Content handout.

5. Activities and Assessment

Activities and assessments should be designed to evaluate student progress
toward the learning outcomes and elicit meaningful feedback from the instructor.

While traditional exams have value, courses ideally have a variety of assessment
types. The Provost’s Office encourages faculty to use authentic assessments
(e.g., projects, presentations, case studies) where possible. Designing
authentic assessments, which require students to apply their knowledge and
skills in real-world contexts, promotes deeper learning, critical thinking,
problem-solving, and creativity.

Standard Rationale

5.1 Activities and assessments are strategically designed to support students’
achievement of the learning outcomes, and those outcomes are stated in each
assignment description. Activities and assessments should reflect how
instructors will evaluate students’ comprehension of the material (for example,
students’ ability to explain something cannot be observed with a multiple-choice
quiz). Alignment ensures that assessments serve as meaningful measures of
students’ mastery.

By explicitly stating the learning outcomes in each assignment description,
students gain a clear understanding of the expectations and purpose behind each
assessment.

For inspiration, see this visual of outcomes with suggested matching
assessments, and consider using a course outcomes matrix to ensure there are no
gaps in alignment (see Standard 2.4).

5.2 Activities and assessments are scaffolded throughout the course, where
formative (low-stakes) activities prepare students for summative (high-stakes)
assessments. Any long-term projects are broken down into several milestones,
with opportunities for feedback and revision. Scaffolding activities and
assessments throughout the course gives students the opportunity to practice and
refine their skills progressively (Ambrose et al., 2010). Long-term projects
with manageable milestones aid students with time management and also allow for
the integration of knowledge and skills across different learning domains (see
Standard 2.3).

Milestones may include individual project components or incorporate simpler
alternatives like check-ins, status reports, or peer reviews.

5.3 All activities and assessments are clearly explained, with detailed
descriptions that outline the purpose, expectations, format, and specific
details of the task requirements. Clear and detailed descriptions leave little
room for ambiguity and misunderstanding. Explaining an assignment’s purpose can
help students understand why they are being directed to complete it and,
therefore, feel motivated. Instructors can also rely on clear descriptions to
ensure consistent and fair assessment practices.

In order to write effective assignment instructions for students, prioritize
clarity and specificity by using concise language that clearly outlines the
purpose, expectations, format, and specific details of the task requirements.
The assignment instructions should help students understand why they are being
directed to complete the activity. Most importantly, assignment instructions
should clearly articulate what students need to do in order to be successful
while also identifying the skills practiced and associating them with relevant
learning outcomes.

For further guidance, please see these tips for writing assignment instructions.

5.4 Students can submit all work through digital assessment tools or external
tool integrations in Canvas; they are not asked to email their instructor any
work for grading. Using digital assessment tools (e.g., Canvas assignments,
discussions, etc.) and external tool integrations (e.g., Gradescope,
VoiceThread, Harmonize, etc.) benefits both instructors and students. Activities
and assessments being available in Canvas helps students manage assignments, due
dates, and grades more effectively (Educause, 2020).

For instructors, using digital assessment tools within Canvas provides a
safeguard in multiple ways. It creates a transparent and documented record of
when students access assignments, which can aid in grade disputes. Having
students submit their work in Canvas also reduces the risk of assignments being
misplaced, as all submissions are centralized.

6. Regular and Substantive Interaction (RSI) and Interactivity

RSI is an important federal, legal obligation for online instruction (see Code
of Federal Regulations) that is defined as when an instructor provides
consistent opportunities for students to engage with the instructor, other
students, and content in a meaningful way. RSI has been proven to improve
student learning outcomes and retention. It is also what distinguishes distance
learning courses from correspondence courses, allowing institutions to be
eligible for Title IV financial aid.

Standard Rationale

6.1 Students are expected to introduce themselves to the class. Requesting
students to introduce themselves to the class fosters a sense of community and
belonging from the beginning of the course (Darby & Lang, 2019). It helps break
the initial barriers of anonymity, promoting social interaction and engagement
among students. Introductions not only encourage students to connect with their
peers but also set a positive tone for collaborative learning.

Examples include a mandatory discussion forum, VoiceThread activity, etc., where
students are asked to introduce themselves. Consider asking students specific
questions, such as how they prefer to be addressed, why they are taking the
course, what some of their favorite hobbies are, etc.

6.2 In courses that are ten weeks or more, mandatory bi-weekly interactions
foster observable student-student interaction. In accelerated courses (less than
ten weeks), these interactions must be structured weekly. Implementing regular,
mandatory interactions that facilitate student-student interaction creates a
dynamic learning environment. These interactions, such as discussions, peer
reviews, group work, and collaborative projects, prompt active participation and
collaborative learning. Offering at least one of these interaction options
weekly or bi-weekly, depending on the course's duration, is appropriate.

Student-student interactions enable students to share diverse perspectives and
develop crucial interpersonal and teamwork skills. This approach not only
enhances their comprehension of the course material but also prepares them for
real-world scenarios where effective communication is key to success.

For discussions, due dates should be staggered to accommodate initial responses
and replies to classmates (e.g., initial posts due on Thursdays at 11:59 pm and
replies to peers due on Sundays at 11:59 pm).

6.3 Assessments and activities are designed in ways that elicit Regular
Substantive Interaction (RSI) and faculty-student interaction.

Designing activities and assessments that promote RSI not only ensures
compliance with federal regulations but also enhances the overall quality of the
learning experience by establishing meaningful communication between instructors
and students.

Regular interaction is the frequency of communication between students and
instructors, while substantive interaction is the quality of communication.
Combining two of the following examples would satisfy RSI: Instructor
participates in discussions with students (does not need to respond to every
single student post) each week. Weekly announcements are sent to students to
recap the week before and/or prepare for the week ahead. Students receive
substantive feedback on high-stakes assignments (more than just a grade or
rubric boxes checked off). Instructor facilitates student group work with
comments and guidance.

6.4 The syllabus includes information about how students will receive meaningful
feedback for course assessments (feedback from a TA, grader, or other party does
not count toward RSI). Committing to sharing meaningful and reliable feedback is
critical for students’ learning and success. By sharing information ahead of
time about how students can expect to receive meaningful feedback, instructors
maintain transparency and accountability in the assessment process.

Feedback from the instructor (in addition to any feedback from a TA, grader,
etc.) is important, as it represents expertise and authority in the subject
matter. Instructors possess a deep understanding of the course content and
learning outcomes, enabling them to provide nuanced, sophisticated feedback.
Additionally, instructor feedback establishes a direct connection between the
student and instructor, which is required for RSI.

This may look like a statement such as, “I am committed to providing you with
meaningful weekly feedback on each assignment using the comments feature in
Canvas.”

6.5 An “Ask the Instructor” or equivalent forum gives students the opportunity
to post questions/comments and receive answers that may benefit the whole class.
Providing students with opportunities to ask questions about the course fosters
a supportive learning environment. Encouraging questions empowers students to
take an active role in their learning and seek clarification when needed. This
practice not only enhances communication between the instructor and students but
also promotes a sense of inclusivity and responsiveness.

While students can be prompted to reach out to the instructor privately if
needed, encouraging them to share questions in a public forum offers several
advantages. This approach fosters student-student interaction, as students may
assist each other with their inquiries, and the instructor’s responses can
benefit the entire class. Additionally, it can reduce the volume of individual
emails an instructor receives, particularly for common questions or unclear
points.

Instructors should be sure to subscribe to the forum (so they are notified when
new comments are posted) and enable notifications for discussions to “Notify
immediately.”

6.6 Instructor sets clear expectations for responsiveness and availability in
the syllabus. Setting clear expectations for responsiveness and availability
benefits both instructors and students. For students, this commitment provides a
structure for managing learning activities, as they know when to anticipate
email responses, feedback, and assignment grades. It benefits instructors by
helping them manage their communication workload more efficiently by staying
accountable, ultimately enhancing the overall quality of the teaching and
learning experience.

The instructor’s commitment to regular interaction may include a statement such
as, “I will respond to all emails/Inbox messages within 24 hours. Assignments,
discussions, and quizzes will be graded weekly.” It may also include office
hours and commitment to posting regular Canvas announcements.

For additional guidance, please see this Regular and Substantive Interaction
(RSI) fact sheet.

7. Student Workload

The student workload is a crucial aspect of any course. The right balance of
course content, activities, and assessments is vital for ensuring student
success while upholding academic rigor and aligning with state requirements (see
New Jersey Administrative Code).

Standard Rationale

7.1 The student workload each week is rigorous, and time on task is in line with
the credit hours and level of the course. Ensuring the student workload aligns
with the course’s credit hours and level, as mandated by state policy, maintains
academic rigor and equity across courses and programs.

In a 15-week, 3-credit course, students should have approximately 7.5 hours of
work to complete each week (with the exception of weeks when major assessments,
such as exams or projects, are due).

During accelerated courses, students should complete the same amount of work in
a shorter time frame. In a 7-week course, for example, students should have
approximately 15 hours of work each week. Maintaining a comparable workload in a
condensed time frame ensures students have a consistent and effective learning
experience.

Reading assignments, watching videos, participating in discussions, and
completing assignments all count toward the student workload.

For additional guidance, please see this Online Student Workload fact sheet.

8. Accessibility

Acknowledging the needs of diverse learners and prioritizing accessibility is of
paramount importance. All students, regardless of their abilities or
backgrounds, should have equal access to course materials and be able to fully
participate in the learning process.

Standard Rationale

8.1 The course is offered through Canvas, and statements certifying
accessibility from Canvas and any external tool vendors are linked in the
syllabus.

Providing accessible tools is essential to ensure equitable access to learning
for all students. Linking the accessibility statements from Canvas and external
tool providers communicates a commitment to inclusivity and compliance with
accessibility.

The accessibility statements for Canvas and other course tools can be found
here. These can follow a statement such as, “This course is offered through an
accessible learning management system. For more information, please refer to the
following accessibility knowledge article.”

8.2 There is enough contrast between text, images, and backgrounds for content
to support ease of visibility. All students should be able to access and absorb
course information comfortably; no student should be hindered by visual
barriers. Readability directly impacts students’ ability to engage with and
comprehend course content. Low contrast can impede visibility for any student,
but particularly for students with visual impairments.

Text should have high contrast to page backgrounds (for example, black text on a
white background). Color should not be used to distinguish meaning within texts
or presentations. Consider using this Colour Contrast Analyser to determine
whether your content meets minimum visibility standards.

8.3 Content developed by the instructor uses sans-serif font with a size of at
least 12 for improved readability. Font choice and size can impact how students
perceive and engage with course materials. Using sans-serif fonts enhances
readability, particularly on digital screens (Hojjati et al., 2014), reducing
potential reading fatigue.

There may be discipline-specific exceptions where other font types are
appropriate, such as for courses in which students will be working with LaTeX or
programs with specialized formatting conventions.

8.4 All images in the course have a brief but thorough alt-text tag. Alt-text
(or alternate text) is a brief description assigned to an image to convey its
content and purpose to individuals who cannot see the image, such as those with
visual impairments using screen readers.

Including alt-text for all images in the course is imperative to ensure
accessibility for students. Screen readers rely on these tags to provide
meaningful descriptions of images that would otherwise go unrecognized, ensuring
equitable access to content. Without alt-text, students who rely on screen
readers may miss crucial information conveyed through images, undermining their
learning.

Images in Canvas, lecture slides, PDFs, etc., should include alt-text. For
further guidance, refer to these guidelines for describing STEM images, Canvas’s
guide for managing alt-text, Microsoft’s guide for adding alternative text, and
Adobe’s guide for creating and verifying PDF accessibility

8.5 Level headers, rather than text format, are used to distinguish different
sections. Using level headers instead of relying on text formatting alone (font
size, style, color, etc.) is crucial for accessibility. Level headers provide a
structural hierarchy within the text that is essential for screen readers and
assistive technologies to interpret and navigate content effectively.

While some students may be able to see the differences in font or color meant to
indicate sections of a document, students relying on screen readers will not be
able to tell the difference. Without clear level headers, students who rely on
screen readers may struggle to comprehend the organization of the material,
hindering their ability to locate key information.

For further guidance, refer to Canvas’s guide for changing text style,
Microsoft’s guide for adding a heading, and Adobe’s guide for editing document
structure.

8.6 All multimedia elements (e.g., videos, podcasts, etc.) have captions and/or
a transcript document. Providing captions and/or transcripts for multimedia
elements is essential for ensuring accessibility. Students with hearing
impairments or those in noise-restricted environments rely on captions and
transcripts to access and comprehend multimedia content. Without captions or
transcripts, valuable course information conveyed through videos, podcasts,
etc., may be inaccessible, resulting in an inequitable learning experience.

Videos recorded in Panopto should have auto-captions rendered, and PowerPoints
with embedded audio should have transcripts available.

8.7 All URLs/links in the course are embedded as hypertext. Embedding links as
hypertext is essential for enhancing the user experience and accessibility. This
means making the text referencing an item selectable text (rather than pasting a
full URL, which is not screen-reader friendly). For example, “To learn more
information, check out Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0.”

Avoid using the language “click here” to signal a resource, as it doesn’t
explain what a link is or does. Keep in mind that students who rely on assistive
technology may need to isolate a list of all links on a page for convenience. A
list that contains several “click here” options would force students to read or
listen to a page again in order to establish the context for each link.

Avoid underlining text for emphasis, as it can be confusing since underlined
text conventionally indicates a hyperlink, and students may encounter
difficulties differentiating between emphasized text and actual links.

For additional guidance, see Canvas’s guide for creating hyperlinks, Microsoft’s
guide for creating and editing a hyperlink, and this Google Doc guide for
working with links.

For additional guidance, see how to leverage Canvas’s native accessibility
checker and Ally integration.

9. Student Support

Online students should be provided with and encouraged to leverage the resources
available to them for academic success. This includes institutional resources,
such as technical support and academic assistance, as well as supplementary
materials for deeper learning.

Standard Rationale

9.1 A course page links to this list of student services, which describes the
technical support, university academic support systems, and student resources
offered. Throughout the course, students may encounter technical issues or
require academic support, and having readily available resources and information
empowers them to seek help when necessary.

Providing this list—which includes items such as the service desk, library,
accessibility services, and tutoring centers—promotes a proactive and supportive
learning environment, reduces obstacles, and fosters a sense of belonging within
the university community.

9.2 A course page answers basic questions about Canvas, external tool
integrations, and any other course technology, with links to tutorials or other
resources that provide students with technical guidance. Providing information
on Canvas, external integrations, and other course tools is essential for
supporting students’ successful navigation through the course.

Students may encounter technical or procedural questions, and readily available
instructions/tutorials empower students to be self-sufficient, reduce potential
frustration, and ensure students can confidently engage with the course
technology.

Examples include the NJIT Student Technical Resources, VoiceThread student
guides, the Gradescope student guide, etc. Many guides for NJIT-licensed tools
can be found in the IST Knowledgebase.

9.3 A course page includes resources for extra help with course content.
Including additional resources for extra help with course content supports
students’ diverse learning needs and helps promote academic success. Students
may require supplementary materials to bridge a gap in their knowledge,
reinforce their understanding of certain concepts, or address specific learning
preferences.

By offering further reading/viewing materials, websites, practice problems, and
other subject-specific resources, instructors can empower students to seek
clarification, explore topics in-depth, and engage with elements of the course
material at their own pace.
